a world without metal good that's not
music anyway
calm down boomers I'm talking about the
elements you know copper silver lead
iron and you know what not what if they
all just disappeared overnight as if
someone has meddled with our metal so no
more spoons and coins big deal you say
not so fast you can go ahead and say
goodbye to that phone of yours and the
tablet TV computer all the blinky fun
stuff they're not just made of plastic
and a glass screen metals are most often
used as conductors of electric current
without them all our flashy toys are
useless plus they have metal parts
inside them and you know what that all
means no more internet yep it's getting
bad real fast all modern ways of
communication are no longer you could
write a letter but how will you send it
carrier pigeons this metal free world
has also lost all modern means of
transportation cars motorcycles bicycles
I suppose the mail person could deliver
letters on horseback just look at it
traffic jams of horses filling the road
and other stuff on the roads you can
probably forget about wooden carriages
and buggies how are you gonna cut down a
tree without a saw or ass hold on a
second didn't I just say metal is used
to conduct electric currents yes yes
your bright side good answer
great that means no more electricity
we've entered the dark ages no
artificial light source will work
without metal even if we can somehow
conduct current without metal wires
cords and power lines there still won't
be any light at least not at night after
all the simplest incandescent bulb works
by tungsten metal being heated up okay I
guess it's back to candles but
electricity isn't just about lights and
sockets you won't have run
water the main station uses electricity
plus showers and faucets are usually
made of metal or brass no shower and no
shave all the men in the world will walk
around with long beards will have to
cook on stone stoves which is pretty
tasty by the way no more fast food come
to think of it Humanity is looking more
and more like cave people
well I'm stinky hairy and bored out of
my mind without the internet and TV what
can I do for fun maybe hit up a concert
I know
no heavy metal if we're still playing
with that pun but the musicians won't
have any instruments guitars might be
made from wood but those strings are
usually steel or nylon yes there's hope
but what about the toning bits or the
steel frets okay fine give the drummer
some bongos and the lead guitarist can
do a 6 solo on some wooden spoons but
the singer can scream loud enough for
everyone to hear what without a mic and
and let's not forget about the whole
brass section now playing on kazoos Wow
what a concert maybe I just need a
vacation attention passengers heading
from New York to Paris it's now time to
board the below is that what we'd be
dealing with in a world without metal
planes and ships
I guess travel comes to a screeching
halt
no more rings and jewelry now how's that
guy over there supposed to get on one
knee and propose if my darling will you
marry me yes of course and he wraps a
piece of string around her finger wait I
got it everybody can use candy rings
finally something cool I can get on
board with hey buddy congratulations on
the engagement you might want to get in
shape before the wedding but in this
metal-free world there are no more
weights at the gym you now have to lift
stones a bit harder to get a good grip
on easy now don't hurt yourself
oh he just dropped it on his leg
somebody call an ambulance
oops I mean a really fast corpse but
we'll Jim to the hospital this place
also looks quite different
without metals it wouldn't be possible
to carry out an operation even x-rays
won't be possible the images produced
when x-rays pass through the body are
put on a metal film
well healing herbs and natural remedies
will become the basis of the new modern
medicine hope you have something
valuable to trade with a doctor for
taking care of you of course there are
no more metal coins that's obvious but
paper production is very energy
intensive which means paper money will
disappear as well what will replace it
nuts seeds cereals candy rings yep
will go back to bartering but this new
economy has its advantages you don't
have to break your back in the office
for a salary to buy new clothes it'll be
enough to catch more fish in the early
morning and then exchange it for a linen
shirt imagine what the stock market
would look like an unexpected surge of
locusts heading south hurry
bye all the wheat shares wait back up
there wouldn't even be a gym or hospital
or any other building besides the steel
frame keeping the whole thing standing a
lot of the construction materials like
concrete and cement have metals in them
too so I guess we get to live in straw
huts hey be careful with that fire well
we have to find a replacement for metal
in this
world right the answer to this question
isn't even hypothetical scientists have
recently invented heavy-duty polymers a
special plastic that's also as durable
as iron lighter than aluminum and frost
resistant it's also flexible and cheaper
to manufacture but most importantly
polymers can conduct electric currents
does this mean we're saved from living
in the Stone Age sure if you don't get
technical but if you do then I have some
bad news there are metals in the human
body I'm not talking about your
grandma's metal hip replacements or
Uncle Jim's pacemaker about three
percent of your total body weight is
just metals doesn't seem like much but
you don't want to take them out trust me
among them is calcium a person needs it
for strong bones and teeth so without it
our skeleton would become fragile like
glass your muscles need potassium and
sodium to work properly without these
metals you might have constant muscle
cramps and you probably wouldn't grow
normally zinc keeps the immune system in
working order that's what helps your
body fight off sicknesses and heal cuts
and wounds magnesium is one of the most
important metals in the body it affects
memory speech thinking and attention um
what you also have enough iron in you to
make a small nail iron helps saturate
the body cells with oxygen you know that
stuff you need to breathe in to live
speaking of oxygen magnesium plays a
similar role in
plants as iron does with moving oxygen
and animals it's essential for
photosynthesis that's how they turn
carbon dioxide into the oxygen we
breathe good thing you get all the
metals you need from your food and
plants get all the magnesium they need
from the Earth's soil hey on that note
what would happen to the planet itself
if all the metals disappeared doesn't it
have a core made of iron and nickel
without the core earth loses its
magnetic field and we need that
protective magnetic bubble because it
keeps the ozone layer in place the ozone
in turn protects the planet and
everything on it from the sun's UV
radiation for that matter all the
Earth's layers are made up of different
metals the mantle has a bunch of iron
magnesium and aluminum the crust best
the surface part we're all walking
around on is mostly oxygen but it also
has aluminum iron calcium sodium
potassium and magnesium yep a lot of the
stuff that makes up your body so no
metal no you know me no Iron Maiden or
Iron Man and no Earth whoo good thing
this is all just hypothetical no more
meddling with my metal okay yes I use
that joke up at the top what can I say
I'm recycling hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
[Music]